But like I said, for the rest of this time
we're gonna talk about variables which
are kind of a newer still in beta,
so it's not fully feature complete.
They've been out for a year though,
and like they haven't changed.
So when I say they're in beta,
they're not like, and everything we
talk about could change at any moment.
No, it's like they're in beta
cause they're not done yet.
They could change, but
generally speaking they haven't.
In the year that they've been around.
So I feel other than them
adding new capabilities, so
I feel pretty confident
talking about them, cool.
And with that's called a segue.
So let's talk about variables.
So variables again, this is one of the
things we're explaining this to engineers
becomes shockingly easy, right?
I don't think I really need to opine
too much about what a variable is.
It's a value that can reference, yeah,
it's a named value that you can reference
some arbitrary value and
use in multiple places.
If you change it once,
it changes everywhere awesome.
And there are a few kinds of variables,
which I could read
you this nice documentation that I
wrote for you or I could just show you.
So let's do that.
So we have local styles, and
we also have this local variables and
that opens a nice table for us, right?
Years probably just be called collection,
but I have been creating deleting
collections in this file hundreds
of times working on this workshop.
So mine's now called collection one.
I don't know why.
I don't make the rules around here.
And I have no variables, but
I have a button called create variable.
And I can create see, I could have read
you or shown you like the document I wrote
which shows the four kinds of variables
but here's the four kinds of variables.
Color, number, string, Boolean.
I don't think any of those
need a lot of explaining.
Those should be constants.
We all kind of like know
from our life before.
How we use them.
That needs some explaining.
But let's start with color.
Since we saw that before,
I can create a variable.
I can call it, let's call this one white.
That makes sense.
The other thing I can do is I can right
click on it, and I can hit Edit variable.
In here I can change the name I
could change the just by double
clicking on it too I can change the value
here I can change the opacity and
then I can determine where this
color is allowed to be used, right?
So in this case, it's like
wherever colors are found, right?
But if I want to say, hey,
this is only for text,
right I can scope it just the text.
Can't do that with styles.
Or I can say it's just for borders.
You can see that as we're building out
a design system, we could have a variable
called primary border, which is
different than our primary background.
And you don't want somebody to use
because we all get lazy, right?
If want that to be the same purple
as a background, or whatever,
like you can actually kind
of force good behavior.
So that when you go do all those things
are fine in terms of that one ticket that
you're working on.
It comes when it's time to refactor
the code base that all of your like past
crimes come back.
So we can scope it down to
whatever it ought to be.
We can also do this for numbers as well.
And we'll just do like a quick one,
which is like cozy padding.
I will show you better naming
conventions in a second.
But like as I'm just putting random values
in here, I don't have a better idea.
Also, I was used to 8 and 16 a lot, right?
So let's say like eight
is cozy 16 is normal and
32 is like comfortable I don't know.
So we'll say, eight in this case.
And just to show you
the scoping there as well,
I can scope it to just something we
can use for quarter corner radiuses,
just for width and height,
just for padding, right?
And so where this is important
is that engineering and
design should be collaborating here,
right?
Because ideally you have some kind of
like system in the way you've structured
your CSS or something along those lines.
And to be able to have a common
nomenclature makes everyone's job easier
and again, you can then only assign
these certain values if you want.
The other really cool thing and
where this becomes powerful and
only if you use dev mode,
which is this color syntax.
And me I care about web,
which is that's a waste of my time, right?
But I could say in this case,
it was eight, I could say,
depending on what I'm doing,
I could say that this is like.
That's a it would be 0.5 RAM, right?
Or, I could say.
Right and have it mapped to a CSS
variable, right and so now when I generate
code, I have the CSS variable which yes
I then like have defined eight, right?
But then design decides you know what,
no more cozy eight.
Cozy is now 10.
I just go change the CSS variable,
move on with my life.
So there are lots of ways.
I think for the padding and
stuff like that,
I actually made a tool,
Because making variables one
by one is really obnoxious.
So for all those spacing ones,
you can kind of like this will
just generate one based on a 16.
RAM value but this will create an entire
JSON file, all of the variables and
there's a plug in that you
can import them, right?
Because like,
I don't want to deal with this anymore.
You can it's just JSON, you can figure
out all the ways to generate whatever.
So you do the opposite thing, which is
like, hey, we have a bunch of these values
in our code, write some script,
generate the JSON.
If you download this file,
you can see the structure of it.
Took me a morning to stare at it, but you
can do theoretically generate from your
code base CSS variables
the design team can use.
And then we'll look at from Figma how to
generate CSS the same way we did with that
CSS gen plugin before.
We'll see how to do this here as well.
But yeah, this will go ahead and you can
get rid of any values you don't want,
add some new ones, so on and so.
Fourth.
So we can do that also,
as we saw with the colors, right?
So let's pull back up that one
based on UI colors, right?
And so we saw there was a way
to create variables as well.
So let's go ahead and
we'll say that this is our primary or
brand or what have you generate me and
then color guide and create the variables.
This went ahead and created this
right in a place I don't want it.
If I go into local variables.
I made a collection called colors
where I've got primary like
this is really named primary /50, right?
Because like the slash works in variables
the same way just the styles as
a way to organize.
The cool thing though is if you wanted to,
you could like grab a bunch.
You can create a new one group and that
does the slash nomenclature automatically.
So if I call this one light,
you get a little more hierarchy.
I think you only get one or two as well,
but you can theoretically create sections.
But one of the things that's super
interesting that you can do,
let's move that up,
from that 50 back up here, okay?
So I've got that color palette.
And again, this is one generate, you can
do this for all the colors that you need.
And create all those color palettes and
create them as variables.
The web UI is super cool too,
by the way you can put it again you
don't have to use this Tailwind.
I know about it because I use tailwind but
like colors or colors or
hex codes do whatever you want with them.
So you can like take
any color you want and
it will do the whole palette
actually even show you it in action.
And then like you can edit it and
like change the color stops and
all sorts of fun stuff like that and
save them.
It's super cool.
And there's other tools for just coming
up with a whole color thing, but
I'm not a designer.
That's a different course for
a different day.